[alarm blaring]
Red, we have to go.
Not without Marvin.
Right now,
there's a half dozen cops in here.
In the next five minutes,
the number's gonna triple.
Then we better find him.
[ominous music playing]
[Cooper] Dembe, any sign of Gerard?
[Dembe] I'm sorry, Harold.
I think Marvin's gone.
How'd he get out?
Hang on, we may not know where he is,
but I think we can figure out
where he is going.
Check this out. According to records,
three private jets were scheduled
to depart from that airport.
What do we know about the three?
[Aram] Two corporate jets,
one for an insurance company,
one for a hedge fund,
and both of those make regular trips
to and from Culpeper.
But this one is owned by some kind
of shell holding company
based in the Philippines.
It was scheduled to land and depart
all within 30 minutes of Marvin's arrival.
What's its scheduled destination?
Aeródromo Rizal,
an airfield about 40 minutes
outside Camagüey, Cuba.
[Dembe]
If that's Marvin's plane, it's here.
Nothing was cleared to take off
after the evacuation started.
It's not because it never landed.
That plane was on approach to Culpeper
when the security alert was called in.
Air traffic control waved it off.
It was diverted?
To another private airfield
30 miles north.
-That must be where Marvin's heading.
-I'm leaving now. Send me the location.
Agent Ressler's still in the air.
I'll reach out to him.
I don't know how it happened,
but Fisker wasn't there
and Reddington was waiting.
[exhales]
Well, find out where the hell he is.
I'll be in Camagüey by morning.
I need us to be in the air as soon
as possible. Just leave the bottle.
-Mr. Gerard?
-Can we wait till we take off?
Federal agents entered the terminal.
-They must know you're here.
-How do they know we're here?
[tense music playing]
FBI. Show me your hands.
-What's this about?
-You gotta have some idea.
If not, you wouldn't be
standing in the doorway.
This plane's been grounded.
FBI. Who else is onboard?
What? What's happening?
Who else is onboard?
Nobody. We're just preparing.
Our passengers haven't arrived.
Marvin Gerard, where is he?
I don't know who that is.
Agent Zuma's gonna question you.
We need everyone off.
We'll wait at the gate until he gets here.
Kill the engines. Seal that door.
[engines power down]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Ressler] Hello, Marvin.
[tense music playing]
I'm sorry you're angry
that we got to him first.
You didn't get to him first.
I had him and you took him.
I would've done the same
and probably will.
I know it's hard to accept
but this is how it has to be.
Someone has to be held accountable,
and if it's not Marvin,
Main Justice will go after Harold.
It's not hard to accept.
It's unacceptable.
He is mine to deal with.
You'd really rather kill him,
even if it means I go to prison.
I don't see either of those outcomes
as being inevitable.
But let's be clear, Harold.
You made your bed.
With every crime you committed,
with every day you let pass
without coming to me.
So now you have no right
to put me at grave risk
because you acted with reckless disregard.
Disregard for what?
[Raymond] Disregard for what?
That conversation could begin and end
with Agnes alone.
Elizabeth entrusted you with her daughter,
you took her in,
-you promised to protect her.
-That's right!
-Enough.
-I wanna say this.
I can't defend my mistakes except
to say I committed them for one reason.
To stay out of prison.
To somehow prevent that girl
from losing another parent.
You've made a bigger mess of this
than either of you realize.
That man is my attorney.
Do you have any idea
how clever a person you'd have to be
to fill that position?
Normally, I'd let one of my people
question you, Marvin.
But I wanted to do this myself.
Doesn't sound like I'm in for questioning.
Sounds like you intend to gloat
or vent.
I'm not gloating, Marvin.
To be honest, I'm bereft.
The loss of Elizabeth,
the brutality of it,
especially coming from you,
takes my breath away.
But you're right,
I will take personal satisfaction
in watching you go to prison.
-You tried to destroy me.
-I'm not going to prison, Harold.
If you don't realize that yet,
you will soon enough.
You're wrong.
There's no deal coming, Marvin.
We don't need your cooperation.
We have Raymond.
-He can tell us anything you know.
-He can, but he won't.
You're a puppet.
The federal government sees 1 percent
of the Reddington organization,
the 1 percent he allows you to see.
The rest,
the full scope of what we built together,
is a criminal masterpiece,
the likes of which you, respectfully,
don't have the talent to comprehend.
But let me guess.
You'll tell me about it
in exchange for less time in a cell?
I don't plan
on telling you anything, Harold.
Because you are an underling.
I'm not even talking to you now.
I'm talking...
to her.
Hello, Cynthia.
You really think she's listening after
what you did to Elizabeth? And to me?
[Marvin] Yes, Harold.
I do.
[ominous music playing]
Relax, Carolyn.
We're on the move. Chuck?
The courthouse?
Of all the places for us to meet.
I'm aware of the risk.
The fact that I took it should be
all the indication you need
-of just how urgent this is.
-I spoke with my father.
-How is Alfred?
-Alive and in a pretty good mood,
considering his prostate's
the size of a grapefruit.
-I'm sorry to hear that.
-Well, he's 83.
You could've killed him at 63,
so he knows he's living on borrowed time.
I'm glad I didn't.
Why didn't you? He never likes
to talk about your arrangement.
Sounds like Alfred.
God knows I've done far worse to others
for stealing a fraction
of what he embezzled from my organization.
Why didn't I?
You.
When I found out that he was only stealing
so he could afford to help his only child
pay for law school--
You saw an opportunity.
I don't know about that.
It's easy to be prophetic
when you're older and looking back.
At the time, I just liked your father
and decided to call it
an investment in the future.
My future?
It's a strange feeling
knowing my legal education
was paid for by a criminal.
It's not so bad, Carolyn.
I may be a criminal,
but I'm also the most wanted.
It's nice to be wanted.
So this is it?
The payback?
You're finally asking for the favor
my father promised you
in exchange for his life?
Parenthood is a remarkable thing.
The selflessness of it.
Your father risked everything to help you.
And I'm sure wanted nothing in return.
But I'm not your parent, Carolyn.
So yes.
It's time.
Okay, Mr. Gerard.
We all see what's happening here.
You went to war with Reddington
and you lost.
Now you're looking to damage your enemy.
Mm... not exactly.
You're a senator, Cynthia. Think bigger.
No?
I'm not interested in damaging
Raymond Reddington.
I'm interested in replacing him.
You wanna say that again?
[Marvin] Come on.
We all know that this arrangement
you made with Raymond
is a lot more
than the government bargained for.
He's uncontrollable.
He continues to commit crimes.
The task force is, frankly, off the rails.
Is that so?
Are you kidding me?
The assistant director of the FBI
is responsible for half a dozen felonies.
Yes, because you targeted
and blackmailed him.
No. I mean, yes, I did do that.
But Harold always had a choice.
He didn't have to break the law.
He could've refused. But he didn't. Why?
Because Harold is the way he is after
all these years of working with Raymond.
Oh, that's rich.
I'm offering you and your bosses
the chance to start over.
I'm the man behind the curtain, Cynthia.
I run Reddington's organization.
Which is why I can deliver
the same end product.
I can maintain the Blacklist.
I have access to the same intel
and can be a far more reliable partner
to the Justice Department
than Reddington ever was.
[Panabaker] You murdered Agent Keen,
framed Harold,
and now you wanna use
the chaos you created
as proof that we need a change?
I'm the better option.
[Panabaker] That's not clever.
It's insidious.
Is it?
My offer is simple.
He's out. I'm in.
I get his deal.
And in exchange,
I continue to provide Main Justice
with a steady stream of criminals
you don't even know exist.
And what happens to Reddington?
That's the best part.
Main Justice gets what it always wanted.
Arrest him.
Drop him in a hole somewhere.
This task force will never work with you.
That's true.
That's why we gotta get rid of them too.
We start a new task force.
The Marvin Gerard task force.
You honestly think
the attorney general will go for that?
I do.
And if we hurry up,
we might even be able to get this thing
up and running by the end of the week.
[pensive music playing]
[Cooper]
Main Justice has Marvin in lockdown.
Instead of a detention center,
they sent him to the Cooler
-while he waits on the attorney general.
-The Cooler?
That's inmate talk for
Calvin Coolidge Correctional Facility.
He's being closely guarded.
Only allowed in his cell or the library.
-'Cause he's representing himself.
-It's a nightmare scenario.
[Cooper] It may get even darker.
If Marvin's offer is accepted,
Raymond will be arrested.
What happens to us?
I don't know,
I assumed you'd all be reassigned.
If I'm not being prosecuted,
maybe I'll retire.
What do you mean "if"?
We did what they wanted.
-We arrested Marvin.
-That was never a guarantee.
The irony is, now that we found him,
we have to protect Marvin from Reddington.
[Cooper] One of us is going to prison.
If Raymond kills Marvin,
I don't like my chances.
I can keep an eye on Raymond,
see what he's planning.
Great. I'll go with you.
Alina, you can't be in the field.
I won't be. I'll be in the car.
I can't even do surveillance?
What's the latest?
I'll be seeing a top neurologist
in D.C. today.
If he clears me, I'm back.
If not...
this could be my last assignment.
Okay.
But stay in the car.
[tense music playing]
He's just sitting there.
-How long ago did he leave?
-[Dembe] Ten minutes.
He left the warehouse and drove here.
He's less than half a mile from Marvin.
That is probably not a coincidence.
Hang on. There's another car approaching.
-What's happening?
-Reddington's talking to the driver.
I don't recognize him.
I'm sending you photos to run
for facial recognition.
[Dembe] He obviously knows who Raymond is.
[Park] Wait a minute.
Reddington's handing him something.
It's cash.
-For what?
-[Aram] I got the photos.
I'm running his image
through Bureau databases now.
There he is.
A Lieutenant Theodore Heneveld.
He's a guard
at the Coolidge Correctional Facility.
Unbelievable.
Reddington really is gonna kill Marvin.
You want us to move in?
[Aram] Negative. You stay in the car.
Actually, both of you, get back here now.
-So now what?
-Marvin's in serious danger.
Get out to Coolidge. Arrest Heneveld,
bring him in for questioning.
[indistinct chatter]
[ominous music playing]
Can I help you?
Are you him?
I'm gonna need a little more context
for that question.
The others say you're Marvin Gerard,
Mr. Raymond Reddington's
personal attorney.
I know Raymond.
And you are?
He knows me by the name Wujing.
You're Wujing?
The most prolific assassin who ever worked
for the Chinese State Security Service?
May I sit?
You've murdered more American operatives
than I can name.
What am I gonna say? No?
Why are you here?
I'm not gonna be here very long.
How about we just keep this about you?
Well, I'm serving a life sentence
with no chance of parole.
My only hope of seeing my kin
and my country again
is to escape this...
place.
Yeah, well, good luck with that.
I don't need luck.
After years of planning,
I'm finally close.
We have succeeded in placing
someone on the inside
on the transport team
at the Bureau of Prisons.
I'm sorry. I didn't quite catch that.
The next time I'm taken to the courthouse,
this inside man will be waiting
to set me free.
And you're telling me this because?
You're a lawyer.
Not just a lawyer. Reddington's lawyer.
That means you must be brilliant.
You are brilliant, yes?
-Yes.
-Well, my lawyers have tried
and have been unable to secure for me
a trip to the courthouse.
They've filed motions
and each one has been denied.
All I need is a reason for the judge
to grant me some form of hearing.
Ineffective assistance of counsel.
Your lawyers have tried everything
except for the one motion
that means they're terrible lawyers.
If you claim
that your own lawyers are incompetent,
I'll bet you dollars to doughnuts
you'll get your hearing.
So...
you are Marvin Gerard.
You're damn right I am.
[ominous music playing]
That look tells me you have news.
Good or bad?
Only kind you get around here, Harold.
Good and bad.
I can guess the bad.
The attorney general
wants to take Marvin up on his offer.
-You don't seem surprised.
-On the contrary, I'm stunned.
Every time I think I know
how stupid Main Justice can be,
there's a new low.
AG's not stupid, Harold. He's embarrassed.
Not many know about
our deal with Reddington,
but of those who do,
there are plenty who think it's beneath
our government's integrity
to partner with a criminal of his stature.
I've heard those arguments.
They're theoretical.
Those people don't experience
the reality of our association.
No, what they experience
are classified briefings
about the crimes he still commits.
Briefings about the death of Agent Keen
and the felonies being committed
by the assistant director of the FBI.
No, they don't get a sense
of the full reality,
but what they do see
makes them wanna cringe.
Reddington's out.
Arrest warrant's been issued.
AG expects you to take him into custody
next time he's in your company.
-And us?
-You're out too.
There's a new task force
being sourced as we speak.
You said you had good news?
Well, uh...
I undersold,
because it's not good, it's great.
Main Justice has agreed not to charge you.
-On which counts?
-All of them.
It worked, Harold.
They're happy.
They feel smart and in control.
Congratulations.
The moment Marvin's deal takes effect,
their promise to you becomes binding.
[tense music playing]
[Park] What did you do before your shift,
Mr. Heneveld?
Nothing.
A secret meeting with
the most wanted man in the world?
A jury might consider that something.
[Dembe] Your career is over.
The only question now is whether
your colleagues will end up guarding you.
Hope you were good to the inmates.
Save the heavy hand for the next guy.
I'm not making this any harder.
-What was the meeting about?
-You won't believe me.
Try us.
He wants to break into the Cooler.
His lawyer's being held there.
He wants to meet with him.
Why'd he come to you?
He knows I move contraband
in and out of there.
One of the inmates, Flori Pascual,
his cousin's high in the Quito Cartel,
they built a passageway
so they could send him things.
A passageway.
-A tunnel?
-I don't know.
There's a vent behind the boiler
in one of the sub-basements.
They leave stuff behind the grate.
I get it and distribute it.
The passageway has to be big enough
for a person to pass through.
Reddington knows the access point.
I'm supposed to be waiting
at the grate to let him in.
You were right.
Reddington won't stop until Marvin's dead.
Can you imagine the hubris
to break into a federal prison
and murder an inmate?
We'll get Gerard out.
We have to transport him to the courthouse
so a judge can sign his immunity deal.
Agent Zuma and I'll
make sure that tunnel's shut down.
Raymond's not getting into that prison.
[ominous music playing]
I almost destroyed my career
a thousand times in this job.
I figured I'd finally do it
when I came face to face
with whoever really killed Elizabeth Keen.
I think I'd do it if I were
the only one who'd pay the price.
-You'd kill me?
-Probably.
Then Cooper would end up going to jail
and Agnes Keen would lose another parent.
It makes me sick,
knowing you're gonna get what you want.
What I want?
You think this is what I want?
I didn't beat Reddington. We both lost.
I would've worked for him till the end.
Now I'm an informant.
Well, at least I am until Raymond
exacts his revenge.
He's trying.
We're the ones protecting you.
[scoffs]
-You can't protect me.
-We can.
Reddington had a plan
to get into the prison.
We're shutting it down.
Yeah. This plan. This time.
There will always be another.
One day...
one will succeed.
Blanket immunity.
I thought you'd be happy.
I'm gonna take the deal, Donald.
But let's be clear.
This is the worst day
of what's left of my life.
[telephone rings]
Judge Grunwald's chambers.
Understood.
I'll tell him.
[man] They're early.
Nobody's here yet, Your Honor.
Should be just a few more minutes.
That was Tim Post,
the chief judge's clerk.
-Judge Marquez would like to see you.
-Fine, schedule it.
-No, I mean now.
-Now?
I'm about to start a FISA hearing,
my courtroom is closed,
the parties are here.
Well, almost.
Yes, Your Honor.
It's a special circumstance.
That's why the judge would like a word
before you begin.
Call the U.S. Attorney,
push the start by 15 minutes.
If the defendant arrives before I'm back,
have him wait in here.
-With his attorney?
-He is an attorney, representing himself.
I'll be back.
[ominous music playing]
Plenty of room
for a person to pass through.
Get him out of here.
I want this block evacuated and sealed
while we complete our investigation.
What's wrong?
It just hurts.
Knowing there won't be
justice for Elizabeth.
I had to arrest Marvin.
It's the only way I could keep
my promise to Agnes.
What promise?
It was the first night she stayed with us.
[somber music playing]
Did you eat anything?
Charlene thought you might be hungry.
Oh, what you got there?
Did you make that?
My mom and I made it together.
Well, I like it.
Can I get you anything else?
Another blanket, maybe?
Agnes.
I guess, first,
I, uh, wanna say how sorry I am.
I loved your mother.
And I'm so extremely sad
that she's not here.
But I am.
And so is Charlene.
We're so very glad
to have you here with us.
I think your mother picked us
because she thought
we could be a good family,
and I think she was right.
And I promise...
we're not going anywhere.
Except maybe the kitchen.
That sandwich looks good.
It's a Wild Horse.
My mom would always say that...
if she had to go away for a while.
"Wild Horses," like a code
for how much we loved each other.
-"Wild Horses"?
-Couldn't drag me away.
It's a song.
By the Rolling Stones,
one of my favorites.
I hope one day
you'll feel that way about us.
That we would be there,
that we wouldn't go away,
that's what I said.
Now to keep that promise,
I'm standing by and watching
her mother's killer get away with it.
[suspenseful music playing]
Excuse me. Agent Ressler with the Bureau.
This is Marvin Gerard.
Mr. Gerard, I'm afraid
His Honor had to step out.
-That's fine.
-Our start time's been pushed 15 minutes.
In the meantime, you can go on in.
I'm sure the AUSA is on his way.
Wait here.
Your Honor, my clerk said
you wanted to see me.
Jeffrey, thanks for coming.
I understand you're about
to start a classified hearing.
[ominous music playing]
[grunts]
Hello, Marvin.
Your judge had to step out,
so I'll be judging you today.
Well played, Raymond.
The task force thought they figured out
your plan to get to me at Coolidge.
Yeah, well, cat and mouse, cat and mouse.
How did you convince the judge
to step away?
I didn't have to.
He was summoned by his boss.
Marquez. Right.
I knew you had a hook
into the chief judge.
I just didn't see the play.
You always were a great strategist.
You were always a great consigliere.
What a sad end to our association,
our friendship.
Is that what I hear in your voice,
Raymond? Sadness?
In part.
For what it's worth, Marvin,
I understand your turn of events.
The betrayal is unforgivable,
and you'll die for it.
But it's understandable.
After all, my feelings for Elizabeth
weren't always rational.
I was often emotional
rather than pragmatic.
And you weren't entirely wrong
to wonder if Elizabeth was capable
or worthy of running things.
Not entirely wrong, or even slightly.
Still, however subjective my decision was,
the objective truth is
that it was mine to make.
You voiced your objections.
You'd already made up your mind.
And once the choice was made,
it was your obligation
to live with it, Marvin.
Even if it meant watching everything
we built crumble before my eyes?
Yes.
No. I wasn't your servant, Raymond.
I was your partner.
We created an empire together.
I may have been in the shadows,
but it was my life's work too.
You had no right
to have been so reckless with it
and blindly expect my loyalty.
I loved you, Marvin.
But we were never partners.
You worked for me.
I valued you. I pulled you close.
I wanted and needed
your help and friendship.
I never dreamed that
it would cost me Elizabeth.
You never dreamed that
I would have the courage to defy you.
I wonder how many cowards
have gone to their graves
insisting on their own courage.
You think I'm a coward?
Marvin, if you wanted Elizabeth dead,
you could have done it yourself
in a thousand dignified ways.
Instead you used Vandyke,
you let him shoot her on the street
to hide your involvement.
You targeted Harold
because you were afraid the task force
would help me discover what you'd done.
-I was brave enough to go to war with you.
-Only because you had nowhere left to run.
Framing Heddie,
creating the specter of Kate Kaplan.
Those were acts of cowardice, Marvin.
The Department of Justice
may hope otherwise.
But you are not me.
You can't hide from me.
You can't best me,
and God knows you could never replace me.
We are sitting in a federal courthouse,
and I have the power
to put you down like a dog.
No deal could ever protect you from me.
Then do it.
[tense music playing]
I've had enough.
You're right.
I can't beat you.
And I never really wanted to try.
[dramatic music playing]
Hi, Abbey. Thanks for the heads up
on the push. The judge back?
Should be any second.
The defendant is waiting inside.
You can go on in.
[ominous music playing]
Oh, perfect timing.
Gentlemen, sorry for the delay.
Thanks for your patience.
No problem, Your Honor.
Why don't we get started?
["Wild Horses" playing]
♪ Childhood living ♪
♪ Is easy to do... ♪
Is it true?
Marvin's deal was approved by the court.
Char. It's over.
Oh, my God. You're home.
For good.
We almost lost you.
I'm so sorry for that
and for what I had to allow to fix it.
Marvin's free.
He's been released as we speak.
I don't care. And I'll tell you what else,
Agnes won't either.
-When she grows up, she'll understand.
-She still awake?
I'm not sure.
She was trying to wait up for you.
♪ You know I can't let you ♪
♪ Slide through my hands ♪
♪ Wild horses ♪
♪ Couldn't drag me away ♪
I told you, kid...
♪ Wild, wild horses ♪
I'm not going anywhere.
♪ Couldn't drag me away ♪
I just need a minute.
Just give me one minute, okay?
[ominous music playing]
Leaving so soon?
I told you I wouldn't be here long.
I've sent the motion.
If this works, I'll owe you.
It'll work.
And my friend Raymond,
will he help me get out of the country?
No.
Have you asked him?
I didn't have to ask, Wujing.
I didn't have to ask
because Raymond is not your friend.
He's the reason you're in here.
What do you mean?
He's a confidential informant.
He has an immunity deal with the feds.
He feeds them criminals like you
and he keeps his freedom.
You're not alone. There are people
in prisons all over the world
who have no idea
that Raymond is the reason why.
How can this be true?
I had a feeling that you might say that.
I made you a list.
Wait.
Why are you telling me this?
I thought you worked for him.
He thought that too.
[dramatic music playing]
I understand congratulations
are in order, Harold.
So it seems.
Thank you, Raymond. Have a seat.
[ominous music playing]
Agnes is asleep.
She'll be sorry she missed you.
Marvin's deal went into effect
a little while ago.
As did the promise
for Main Justice not to prosecute me.
It worked.
Bringing him in brought me my life back.
And yet, you seem troubled.
I am.
Because the devil's bargain
came with a hefty price.
Marvin's freedom--
And your arrest.
I was ordered to place you in custody
the next time I saw you.
I see.
You're here because
I have no intention of doing that.
Apparently,
I have one crime left to commit.
Letting me go?
That's very sweet of you, Harold.
I appreciate the warning.
Though, I'm certain it's unnecessary.
It's true. Marvin's deal did take effect.
I had to make sure of that.
But he won't be cooperating
with the government.
-[Cooper] I don't understand.
-[Raymond] No, I don't suppose you do.
Marvin and I said our goodbyes today.
You spoke with Marvin? Today?
How's that even possible?
[Marvin] Then do it.
I've had enough.
You're right.
I can't beat you.
And I never really wanted to try.
It'll be done, Marvin.
But I won't be the one to do it.
Out of respect for our history, I'm gonna
give you what you never gave Elizabeth.
The chance to leave this world
in whatever way you choose.
The chance to make it painless,
to put your affairs in order,
and say goodbye to those
who would grieve your passing.
And if I refuse?
Then you and I will get the answer
to a question I've been asking myself
since the night Elizabeth died.
What will I do to the person responsible?
How dark is the blackness
at the center of this hole in my heart?
I'm not sure I really wanna know that.
But if need be, we'll find out together.
You may not pull the trigger, Raymond.
But if I die, it's because you killed me.
I devoted everything to you...
to your vision,
to what I thought was our vision.
A life of crime with a common purpose:
to help keep the world from slipping
into the kind of evil
we know humans are capable of.
I thought we were together in this.
We were.
No, Raymond, because to me,
it was the most important thing.
But to you, it wasn't.
I am so proud of what we built, Raymond.
It's what I lived for.
But in the end, I realize...
it was never really my life at all.
[gunshot]
Cynthia, come in.
What's wrong? Are you all right?
Why do I have a feeling
you know what I'm about to say?
Say it anyway.
Marvin Gerard won't be cooperating
with the Justice Department.
And why is that?
Because I just heard he left prison,
got into his car and shot himself.
Oh, my God. He's dead?
I spoke to the attorney general,
the promise stands.
He won't punish you because Marvin
did something out of your control.
-I'm sure there's more.
-[Panabaker] There is.
He's rescinded his order
to have you arrested.
Hm. Surprise, surprise.
[Panabaker] He's being practical.
He doesn't like it,
but we need the Blacklist.
And if Marvin can't deliver it,
he's willing to stay the course.
-Like none of this ever happened.
-None of what, Harold?
I've already forgotten.
You really are quite something.
At the moment, what I am is tired.
I'm going away for a few weeks
to take the sisters home,
eat some peyote, set up the telescope,
look at the night sky.
Who knows? Maybe I'll find a new star
to name after you, Harold.
I'll let you know.
Please give my love to Agnes.
Don't forget what tomorrow is, Raymond.
Harold, I'll never forget
what tomorrow is.
Okay.
Here goes.
It's been three years
since we lost Elizabeth.
In some ways, it's gotten easier, but...
in most ways, it still hurts.
[somber music playing]
There goes my hope
of doing this without crying.
And, uh, this part won't be any easier.
After a lot of careful reflection...
I have decided to take some time away.
I, uh, do not know how long but...
I do know away.
So, what's your plan?
My plan is no plan.
I, uh, found a cool place in Brooklyn.
I plan to go up there
and just, you know, ride my bike,
do New York, eat lots of pizza.
Look at the people. Maybe a Broadway show.
Anyway, I know we are here
to talk about Elizabeth.
I've been wanting to tell you guys.
I think she'd like that idea.
I remember when I saw she was a profiler
and I asked her to profile herself.
[chuckles] What did she say?
She described someone similar and yet...
so, so different from the woman
I grew to know and love.
I didn't like her.
I mean, I came around, but--
She really got to me.
Alina, you made it. How did it go
with the Bureau neurologist?
Well, not like I expected.
Apparently, my headaches
have been getting worse
because of a pretty
serious medical condition.
I'm pregnant.
[all exclaiming]
-Oh, my God.
-Congratulations.
That's wonderful news.
Pete must be over the moon.
So the headaches aren't permanent?
They don't know, but they don't think so.
Still, if it's okay,
I'd like to take a medical leave
from the task force
until we know for sure.
You'll be back in the field
before you know it.
Maybe. Or maybe life's got other plans.
Once the baby is born,
either way, I'll be great.
Dembe. I think you're up.
Would you care to say anything?
It was a little different for me
because my relationship with Elizabeth
was always in terms of Raymond.
I remember when Elizabeth was several
years younger than Agnes is now.
Raymond and I went to a soccer match
she was playing in.
The match was a disaster.
All these girls running this way and that,
a lot of missed goals
or goals made by accident,
but it was so much fun.
And after it was over,
I don't think anyone really cared or knew
who won or lost.
Everyone was standing around
having snacks and juices,
comparing scrapes and bruises,
and there was a lot of noise and activity,
but suddenly I heard this laugh.
This sort of explosive, spontaneous laugh,
young and so full of joy and infectious,
but also familiar.
It was Elizabeth.
But I turned to look next to me
because, just for a second,
I thought it was Raymond.
And some years later,
just before Elizabeth died,
we all spent a few days together
in D.C. and New York.
Raymond, Elizabeth, Agnes,
myself and Mrs. French.
Just hanging around talking, eating,
playing board games, walking in the park.
We went to a couple of museums,
got ice cream,
and we just laughed with each other.
Agnes, Elizabeth and Raymond.
This funny little family
who all share that laugh.
This one big, generous, mischievous,
loving, hungry, wanting, tragic heart.
♪ I go straight towards them all ♪
♪ Why am I always running ♪
♪ Into a burning house?
It's okay.
♪ Why am I always running ♪
-Congrats.
-Thank you.
♪ Into a burning house? ♪
Be safe.
♪ Go back inside
And call off the sirens... ♪
-How much further to the courthouse?
-Not long.
♪ I'm in control, I've been here before
I swear all the smoke will clear ♪
The Ministry has a plane waiting.
We leave for Beijing this time tomorrow.
No. We're not going home.
Not until I find and kill
Raymond Reddington.
Reddington?
Wujing, we can't do that alone.
We won't have to.
I have a list of others
who will be glad to join the fight.
♪ Why am I always running ♪
♪ Into a burning house? ♪
[theme song playing]